US President Joe Biden has endorsed what
he calls an Israeli proposal for a
permanent ceasefire in Gaza the plan
would unfold in three phases and assure
a permanent ceasefire the return of
Israeli hostages and the Reconstruction
of Gaza Hamas has released a statement
saying it views The Proposal positively
the office of Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has said it still
wants to see the destruction of hamas's
military and governing ability here's
Biden speaking from the White House this
is truly a decisive
moment Israel's made their
proposal Hamas says it wants to cease
fire this deal is an opportunity to
prove whether they really mean it Hamas
needs to take the deal I know there are
those in Israel who will not agree with
this plan and will call for the war to
continue
indefinitely some some are even in the
government
Coalition I ask you to take a step back
and think what will happen if this
moment is lost we can't lose this moment
it's time to begin this new stage for
the hostages to come home for Israel to
be secure for the suffering to stop it's
time for this war to
end over to Benjamin Alvarez grber in
Washington Benjamin tell us more about
what's in this plan that Biden has just
announced so president Biden laid out
what he described as a three-phase
proposal for a ceasefire the first phase
involves a six- we ceasefire when Israel
forces would withdraw from what he
called were all populated areas of Gaza
some hostages would be freed in exchange
for some Palestinian prisoners and
Palestinian civilians would return also
trucks of humanitarian Aid would be
allowed into Gaza in the second phase
then Hamas and Israel would negotiate
terms of a permanent end two hostilities
in the third phase will then include a
reconstruction plan for Gaza what
President Biden said is that this was a
proposal that was transmitted by Qatar
to Hamas and what we heard that they
would be open and well also willing and
accepting and saying that they look
further to also going in that
direction Benyamin Benjamin Netanyahu
has repeatedly said that he won't stop
until Hamas is completely destroyed he's
resisted calls even from the US for a
ceasefire up to this point what has
changed that's right and it's also
interesting that it's the president of
the United States and not the prime
minister of Israel that presents this
Israeli proposal because just recently
Israel said that it would not end the
war in exchange for the hostages and
looking into the reactions and looking
what the office of the Prime Minister of
Israel also said to this proposal and a
quote that it would also enable Israel
to continue the war until all its
objectives are achieved and that of
course sounds quite different to what
President Biden said when he mentioned
that this is the time for this war to
end and called on the Israeli leadership
to resist pressure from those in Israel
who were pushing for this war to go on
and go on President Biden almost
implored Israelis to not miss the chance
for a ceasefire and it's not just the
Israelis who have resisted calls for a
ceas of the Israeli government is we
just need to remember the US vetoing
resolutions in the UN secure Council
calling for humanitarian Poes to deliver
82 millions in in
Gaza yeah the war in Gaza a tragedy on
every side but also a thorn in the side
for this white house as the election
approaches what are the stakes for Biden
in this
proposal there's a lot of stakes for
Biden and why it's important also for
him to find this proposal and to push
forward we have seen pressure on the
streets many protests rallies we have
seen that all also on us college
campuses across the country but also
increasing pressure from within the
Biden Administration to pressure a
Washington to change its position on the
war in Gaza only on Thursday a two more
us officials resigned over the Biden's
Administration position on the war in
Gaza the officials accus the
administration of not telling the truth
about what they said was Israel's
obstruction of Aid to Palestinians in
Gaza and this is also about The
credibility that the White House has and
just to mention two things on one side
we have all seen those pictures of this
$320 million expensive peer that the US
constructed in Gaza and that broke apart
and on the other side also this
announcement that a major offensive in
Rafa by the Israeli Defense Forces would
be Biden's red line with many wondering
what he meant by a mayor offensive is
Israel confirmed that its forces are in
Central Rafa and are expanding this
offensive in the southern Gaza City all
right DW correspondent Benjamin Alvarez
Gruber thank you very
much all right we want to go now to our
correspondent Tanya Kramer she's in
Jerusalem T you good to see you so tell
us more about this plan the US President
says that the plan was presented by
Israel
right that's right we understand it was
given actually to the mediators Qatar
and Egypt and also to Hamas earlier this
week and this proposal is something
similar that we've uh been uh hearing uh
weeks earlier but those talks have
broken down about three weeks ago so
this new proposal that is now uh on the
table would see a uh uh a deal in three
phases now the first phase would uh
would last about six weeks it would
include a full uh and complete uh
ceasefire temporary ceasefire in that uh
regard a withdrawal from fora from all
populated areas and the release of a
number uh of hostages including uh women
and uh elderly and the wounded in
exchange for as he said hundreds of
Palestinian prisoners now what is
significant here is then when it would
go into the second phase during the
first phase Hamas and Israel would then
indirectly then continue to negotiate to
come to this second phase and that phase
would last as long as they negotiate and
then to attain uh what was described as
a uh a ceasefire that a cessation of
hostilities permanently and also this
second phase then would include the
release uh of um hostages of male uh
soldiers and other hostages living
hostages and that would then continue
into a phase three which was mainly see
the Reconstruction of Gaza now of course
the the ball is now in hamas's court
because their St had also hardened in
recent weeks especially now with the
offensive in going on and they had
always called for a complete cessation
of hostilities to actually go into such
a deal but now of course both sides have
to come back to the negotiation table
they have to decide uh to come back and
Hammer out the details of such a deal so
this proposal then it looks like a a
road map to to a a version of peace that
includes bringing the the Israeli
hostages home how do you think that this
is going to sit with Israelis
well I think first of all I think for
the families and relatives of those
remaining hostages this is a good news
because if you just heard just yesterday
the National Security advisor uh saying
that uh the war could carry on until at
least the end of the year and many here
were asking you know what does that mean
for any deal but uh the US President Joe
Biden he also had a message to the
Israeli government and also to Israelis
saying you have to put pressure on your
leaders because he also said that he
knows that there is there are some in
the cabinet that don't want to see an
end to the war that don't want to see uh
Israel coming uh to a deal and that
there has to be made a decision to be
made and that uh this is very important
at this stage also saying that basically
Hamas is no longer capable of carrying
out another October 7th attack and that
they their capabilities have been
degraded um meaning basically that
Israelis can go forward now and end this
war tw's Tanya Kramer with the latest
tonight from Jerusalem Tanya thank you